The Developer Report For Analyzing Data From Contingency Tables

This page allows the user to input categorical variables and their associated data to test the relationship 
and association between them. It analyzes the data and outputs a bar graph based on the data frequency for 
each categorical variable and lists their frequency, relative frequencies, expected values, degrees of freedom,
chi-squared test statistic, and p-value.

I set out creating this page by first getting user input on how many variables they wanted to compare. The rows and 
columns were important for this as their determined how many of a certain type of variable the user wanted 
to test the association between. I decided to max the number of variables at 6 because after sifting through online 
chi-squared calculators, I found that the max variables they allowed was at most 4, which seemed pretty trivial if 
someone had more variables they wanted to test the associations between. I didn't want to clutter up the page too 
much with the tables so 6 was a good medium to cap the number of rows and columns at. Again, I set the minimum 
number of rows and columns to 2 because a contingency table requires at least 2 variables to be compared to. The 
input is binded so that the table is automatically rendered when the rows/columns value is changed. 
This way the user does not have to click a button to create the input table.

I decided to use a table for holding the user input because it was easily iterable and easy to set up using 
for loops. Also a table was the best way for me to transfer the data into an array, as you can iterate through 
an array the same way you can iterate through a table. The table was essentially a 2d array, and this made it 
easy for processing. The input table is binded with an "$event.target.value" target property of the Event listener.
Essentially what this does is that every time an Event occurs such as the input is changed in the input table, 
it listens for it, gets which cell in the table the event occurred at, and gets its value. This was 
placed in a onCellChange function which basically set the value from the event listener to a particular 
row and column where it occurred so that each data input was at a certain (row,value). On cell change basically, 
updates all the updateFunctions for the different tables, statistics, and charts on the webpage in real time, 
every time the user changes an input in the input table. 


Here is a brief summary/implementation of each of the functions found in the code (You can look at the code comments
for a more detailed explanation of what goes on at the lines):  

    table(): creates a 2d array table based on the user rows and columns inputted. Returns the table as a 2d array

    update(): Updates all the different tables values every time the user enters 
              something in the input fields so that almost everything is done in real time. 
              It sets the update values for the frequency tables, the expected table, category totals, 
              group totals, contingency table, test-statistics, degrees of freedom, and transposes 
              the expected values matrix. 

    addGraph(): Uses Plot.ly to create a bar graph to display the frequencies of each categorical variable. 
                The chart attributes added to the graph allow for hoverability, marker positioning, color-clustering
                individual bars, and displaying frequency counts on the graphs. It also adds the axes and 
                chart title. 

    updateFreqTable(): takes the updated frequency values for the group totals and puts them in an array 
                       which is then pushed into a table to be displayed in the proper formatting on the webpage. 
                       Here, I had to do some logic checks to append the "Totals" and the groupTotals to an 
                       already existing table. Returns this.freqTable which is an array that holds the 
                       variable, freq, relFreq, percentFreq values. 

    updateFreqTable2(): same thing as UpdateFreqTable, except I had to loop through the columns. Returns this.updateFreqTable2
                         which is an array that holds the variable, freq, relFreq, percentFreq values. 

    updateContingencyTable(): Takes the input table and appends a total and table total values for the data. 
                              Done by looping through the already existing input table and appending an extra 
                              row and column to the table. Returns this.contingencyTable which is an array. 

    updateExpectedTable(): This puts the updated expected values from the update() function and transposes them and 
                           puts them in an table with array structure with the appropriate "category" and "group" headings. 
                           Returns this.expectedTable which is an array. 

    chiSquareComputed(): This function displays an alert to the window of the test statistic, degrees of freedom, and the associated 
                         p-value. This is done using the jStat.chisquare.cdf(x,dof) function. X is the test statistic which is 
                         passed in from the update() function and so is the dof. 





I added a button on the screen that helped explain some confusion that might be caused to the user regarding the size
of their input table. You can read more about this in the help.html page. 

I wanted to represent the data for the user in a graphical manner so that they could more visually comprehend it. 
As such, I used Plotly to create a bar graph that displayed each categorical variable and its frequency. I added 
advanced chart attributes such as hoverabilty attributes, color attributes, axes, titles, and markers, so that 
the information in the chart could be visually pleasing and practical. 

The website works by doing several mathematical operations on user inputted data. Behind the scenes, the user data 
for each category and group are held in multiple array data structures. These data structures are analyzed by 
conducting several operations such as the reduce() function to find the sum of the user data values for each category 
and group, division of array indexes to get the frequency, relative frequency, expected values, and chi-square test 
statistics. The sum of the group totals and category totals are used by Plotly to create a bar graph that displays the 
respective totals. The information from the expected data is used in tandem from the original user input to get the 
x^2 test statistic and the degrees of freedom. These two values are then passed into by Jstat (Jstat.chisquare.cdf()) to 
calculate the p-value. However, the value is of the area right of the test statistic, and you want the area left of it. 
So I did 1 - the value of the Jstat function to get the p-value. 


My page is limited by the fact that the user can only enter up to 6 rows and columns, meaning that at most, 
only the distribution and association between 6 variables. I wish I could have made it more flexible, but 
I would have had to sacrifice space and clarity on the page to achieve this. My page is also limited by the fact that 
you have to fill the input table with values first before you can create a chart or get the stat values. 

Problems with my code/implementation is that the user has to use the keyboard "up/down" buttons to enter the number 
of rows and columns at the very beginning to create the input matrix. Besides that, there are no other implementation 
problems.  

If I had more time, I would like to add a features where the user can conduct different types of chi-square tests and conduct 
them on different confidence intervals and significance levels. I would also like to make the graph more colorful and allow 
to toggle for different statistics to be displayed. I also would like to have allowed the user to test whether their 
p-value was in the region of accepted values for a certain level of significance so that they could see if the p-value 
was rejected or accepted for their hypothesis. 



