This outlines the User Input for my "Analyzing Data From Contingency Tables" webpage

The user input for rows and columns, which is the first thing that the user should input 
is in the form of a number. The UI for this was vmodel.number which allowed me to bind the 
user inputted rows and columns so that the resulting table was created without the need for
the user to hit a submit button. The input for rows and columns are capped at 6 and a minimum 
of 2. If the user tries to enter a number greater than 6, then it will automatically set the 
rows and columns to 6. If they try to enter a number less than 0, it will automatically set 
the number of rows and columns to 2. By default, the number of rows and columns are set to 2
at the beginning when the webpage is loaded. 

The user input for "Enter Data" section can be broken down in two parts. The "category" and "group" 
are of type text. The placeholders are there that indicate which cells are "category" and which 
cells are "group". The rest of the inputs in the input table (the ones that are not on row and column 1)
are of type number. These cells have the placeholder "3" in them. In my coding file, I validate the input 
these data cells in two ways. First, I validate that the user cannot enter a negative observed value.
Second, I validate that the user can only enter a numerical value and not a string or text. 

These are the only two areas where user input is needed apart from the buttons. 

The buttons on the webpage work in a typical manner. The info button labeled "Why is the table 
one row and size bigger" is a hover-span button that, when clicked, explains why the user 
input table is one row and column size bigger than what the user inputted. When this button 
is clicked again, the explanation goes away. 

The "Create Graph" button creates a bar graph when clicked that displays the frequency of the 
"Group" and "Category" variables. These bars are color blocked/grouped with the type of variable 
they are (Group or Category). The graph is "hoverable", so that when you hover over a bar it shows 
its' frequency value. The frequency value itself is printed on the top of each individual bar as well.

The "Get Chi-Square Stats" button creates an alert that displays the p-value, degrees of freedom, and 
the test statistic for the user entered data. 

It should be noted that before the "Create Graph" or "Get Chi-Square Stats" button are clicked, the user
should enter all the input data for the input table otherwise garbage stats and graphs will be 
created.
